---
title: monolith//film (2021)
date: Thursday April 8th, 2021
thumbnail: /images/uploads/screen-shot-2021-04-02-at-2.00.35-pm.png
subcategory: Film Commissions
---
# monolith (*film)*

Made possible by The Canada Council for the Arts and The Alberta Foundation for the Arts, *Monolith* illustrates how women are exploited by powerful figures, oftentimes under the guise of good intentions. The main character, Subject 71 is confined to an existence where she must meet the expectations and cater to the demands of The Monitor: a narcissistic and malicious being whose masked face continues to glare with manipulative expression. The Monitor’s commands may be delivered with grace but are in fact insane and inhumane. Subject 71 has no choice but to smile and appease. Her own existence, purpose, and dreams are directly tied to The Monitor’s whims and can be taken away at any moment.

The themes in *Monolith* speak to the experience of many female artists who are placed in situations where they are expected to obey those in higher positions without asking “why?” or even “is this appropriate?” Performed by Kushniruk herself, the sentiment is drawn from her own experiences as a professional dancer.

*PRAISE FOR MONOLITH*

“... I loved the rhythm of it, the intimacy of it, the bold lighting, bold contrast... I was surprised by how deeply I felt for the monotonous moments- and connected with the small (but giant) shifts within the containment. Really great job. I wanna watch it again...”

“CCA fund Tia more. The asylum was pretty fucked and the colouring... Everything felt really intricate and thoughtful even if it actually wasn’t. Your advisory/prologue pulled me into the maker and artist right away - which was fascinating. I fell in love with you before the piece even began. As a contemporary dance viewer, I needed more time to absorb the impact of each scene, but now I just want to watch it again - so maybe debatable”

“...very compelling, it was like a contemporary art Black Mirror. The design was very high level, such clear images in low light, kudos to the lighting team and camera crew...”

“...There is lots to enjoy, lots to consider, it looks great and was unlike any dance film I’ve seen.”

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Additional collaborators on this project include Rizwan Mohuiddin (Writer/Director); Kristen Innes Stambolic (Animator); Susannah Haight (Costume Consultant); Emmett Verhoog (Original Score/Sound Mixing); Ileanna Cheladyn (Rehearsal Director/Movement Director); Jake Tkaczyk (Production Manager); Alexander Boldt (Ass.t Cinematographer/Editor); and Kenzie Bowes (Lighting Designer).

This film touches on serious topics and comes with a trigger warning for those sensitive to topics such as sexual assault and suicide.\
\
This film premiered on April 16th 2021, through Mile Zero's Dance Crush Residency Series.

French and Mandarin Subtitle Translators: Ying Emma Kushniruk, Odile-Amélie Peters, Sydney McManus

\----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

To watch the trailer click [here.](https://www.facebook.com/577883084/videos/10158057455758085/) 

For inquires please email tiaakush71@gmail.com